# Service-Level Agreements

- Service-Level Agreements (SLAs)
  - Formal documents
  - Capture the specific terms that define the performance standards that apply to Azure.
  - Specify what happens if a service or product fails to perform to a governing SLA's specification.
- There are SLAs for individual Azure products and services.
- â— Azure does not provide SLAs for most services under the Free or Shared tiers
  - Free products such as Azure Advisor do not typically have an SLA.
- Three key characteristics of SLAs for Azure products and services:
  1. **Performance Targets**
      - Specific to each Azure product and service.
      - E.g. uptime guarantees or connectivity rates
  2. **Uptime and Connectivity Guarantees**
      - Range from 99.9 percent ("three nines") to 99.999 percent ("five nines") for each corresponding Azure product or service.
      - E.g. Azure Cosmos DB (Database) service SLA offers 99.999 percent uptime
        - meaning it only allows for about 5 minutes of total downtime per year.
        - also includes low-latency commitments of less than 10 milliseconds on DB read + write operations.
  3. **Service credits**
      - Describe how Microsoft will respond if an Azure product or service fails to perform to its governing SLA's specification.
      - E.g. customers may have a discount applied to their Azure bill, as compensation for an under-performing Azure product or service.
- Read more: [SLA Summary for Azure Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/sla/summary/)

## Composite SLA

- Result of combining SLAs across different service offerings.
- Calculating downtime
  - E.g. web app (99.95% SLA from Azure) writes to SQL database (99.99% SLA from Azure)
    - Composite SLA = `99.95 percent Ã— 99.99 percent = 99.94 percent`
      - = `0.9995 * 0.9999 = 0.9994`
    - Means combined probability of failure is higher than the individual SLA values
- You can improve the composite SLA by creating independent fallback paths.
  - E.g. if the SQL Database is unavailable, you can put transactions into a queue for processing at a later time.
    - Web app (99.95%) writes to either SQL Database (99.99%) or queue (99.9%)
    - Application is still available even if it can't connect to the database.
      - However, it fails if both the database and the queue fail simultaneously.
    - If the expected percentage of time for a simultaneous failure is **0.0001 Ã— 0.001**
      - the composite SLA for this combined path of a database or queue would be:
        - `1.0 âˆ’ (0.0001 Ã— 0.001) = 99.99999 percent`
    - Therefore, if we add the queue to our web app, the total composite SLA is:
    - `99.95 percent Ã— 99.99999 percent = ~99.95 percent`
    - Improves SLA but application logic gets more complicated
      - You are paying more to add the queue support and there may be data-consistency issues you'll have to deal with due to retry behavior.

## Application SLA

- By creating your own SLAs, you can set performance targets to suit your specific Azure application.
  - This approach is known as an Application SLA.
- **Resiliency** is the ability of a system to recover from failures and continue to function.
  - High availability and disaster recovery are two crucial components of resiliency
  - **Failure Mode Analysis (FMA)**
    - Goal:
      - Identify possible points of failure.
      - Define how the application will respond to those failures.
  - Read more: [Designing resilient applications for Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/framework/resiliency/overview)
- **High availability**
  - Availability refers to the time that a system is functional and working.
  - As you increase availability, you also increase the cost and complexity of your solution.
  - As your solution grows in complexity, you will have more services depending on each other.
    - You might overlook possible failure points in your solution if you have several interdependent services.
    - ðŸ’¡E.g. a workload that requires 99.99 percent uptime shouldn't depend upon a service with a 99.9 percent SLA.
  - Most providers prefer to maximize the availability of their Azure solutions by minimizing downtime. However, as you increase availability, you also increase the cost and complexity of your solution.
  - Read more: [Availability choices for Azure compute](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/guide/technology-choices/compute-decision-tree#availability)
- ðŸ’¡ >= four 9's (99.99%) SLA performance targets =>
  - manual intervention from failures may not be enough (difficult to be quick enough)
  - self-diagnosing & self-healing solutions are required.
