# App Service

- Enables you to build and host web apps, background jobs (WebJobs), mobile backends, and RESTful APIs.
  - **Web apps**
    - Supports different frameworks such as .NET, .NET Core, Java, Ruby, Node.js, PHP, Python on both Windows and Linux.
  - **API apps**
    - Like web apps. Full Swagger support, and the ability to package and publish your API in the Azure Marketplace.
  - **Web jobs**
    - Run a scheduled/triggered program (.exe, Java, PHP, Python, or Node.js) or script (.cmd, .bat, PowerShell, or Bash) in the same context as a web app, API app, or mobile app.
    - Often used to run background tasks as part of your application logic.
  - **Mobile app back-ends**
    - Build a back-end for iOS and Android apps
    - Inbuilt functionalites for SQL database, authentication, push notifications and custom back-end logic in C# or Node.js.
- Platform-as-a-service (PaaS) with fully managed platform to perform infrastructure maintenance.
- Enables you to build and host many types of web-based solutions without managing infrastructure.
- Automatic scaling: Can scale on both both Windows and Linux-based environments.
- Offers high availability with built-in load balancing and traffic manager.

## Azure Marketplace

- Online store that hosts applications that are certified and optimized to run in Azure.
- Many types of applications are available, e.g. AI / web applications.
- Deployments from the store are done via the Azure portal using a wizard-style user interface.
  - Makes evaluating different solutions easy.

## Costs

- Based on App Service Plan that determines:
  - How much hardware is devoted to your host e.g. if it's dedicated or shared hardware
  - How much memory is reserved for it.
- There is a free tier you can use to host small, low-traffic sites.

### Pricing tiers

- Categories

| Category | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| **Dev / Test** | Ideal for less demanding workloads. Focused on providing shared infrastructure. Additional features include custom domains / SSL and manual scale.
| **Production** | Ideal for more demanding workloads. Additional features include staging slots, daily backups, and a traffic manager.
| **Isolated** | Ideal for workloads that require advanced networking and fine-grained scaling. |

- Within each category, there are different pricing tiers.

### Scale up an App Service

1. Open the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com)
2. From the left-hand navigation menu (may need to click on menu icon), select **Dashboard**
3. Select the **App Service** with the name you chose it in the previous exercise.
4. Under **Settings** you see many configurable settings
5. Select **Scale up (App service plan)**.

## Create a WordPress website

### Creating resources in Azure

- The first thing we'd do is to create a resource group to hold all the things that we need to create.
- The resource group allows us to administer all the services, disks, network interfaces, and other elements that potentially make up our solution as a unit.
- Can use both Azure portal and CLI (good for automation) to manage resource groups.

### Steps

1. Go to [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com)
2. Expand the left-hand navigation panel.
3. From the top of the Azure portal navigation list, select **Create a resource**.
4. Now you're in Azure Marketplace, search for **WordPress** & select the option
5. Select **Create** to begin the process to create a WordPress app.
6. Change options:
    - **App Name**: Choose a unique value for the App name, it'll be part of the domain name.
    - **Database Provider**: Select MySQL in App.
    - **App Service plan/location**
      1. Select the option
      2. **App Service plan** panel, select **Create new**
      3. Enter a new name for  your **App Service**
      4. For location, you want a location closest to your customers, but for example choose **Central US** (to guarantee you get wanted pricing tier)
      5. In **pricing tier**, under dev / test choose **F1** (it's free!)
      6. Back on the **New App Service** plan panel, select **OK** to create the new plan and close the panel.
7. Finally, select the **Create** button to start the deployment of your new site.
8. It takes a few minutes, you can check status on top right => **"..."** => **Notifications** => Select **Deployment in progress**
9. Once the deployment status message change to **Your deployment is complete**, you'll notice the status in the notification dialogue changes to Deployment succeeded. Select **Go to resource** to navigate to the App Service overview.
10. Find the URL in the Overview section.
11. Copy the **URL** information & browse to your new WordPress site.

### Start using CLI

- You can use cloud shell (on top right menu).
- Steps:
  1. Make sure to work with right Azure subscription
      - `az account list --output table`
        - `--output table` to show prettier result than JSON
  2. List all resource groups using: `az group list --output table`
  3. List all resources in your resource group & filter by site:

      ```sh
        az resource list \
        --resource-group [resource group name] \
        --resource-type Microsoft.Web/sites
      ```

  4. Copy the value of `name`.
  5. Stop web application using **`az webapp stop`**

      ```sh
        az webapp stop \
          --resource-group [resource group name] \
          --name <web app name>
      ```

  6. Open the website, you'll see that it's stopped
  7. Start application using **`az webapp start`**:

      ```sh
        az webapp start \
          --resource-group [resource group name] \
          --name <web app name>
      ```
  
  8. Refresh the page of your website & it should be started in seconds.
