# Virtual Machines

- Infrastructure as a service (IaaS)
- Virtual machines, or VMs, are software emulations of physical computers.
- They include a virtual processor, memory, storage, and networking resources.
- They host an operating system (OS), and you're able to install and run software just like a physical computer.
- You can connect to VM & control it using a remote desktop client.
- Good choice when you need:
  - Total control over the operating system (OS)
  - The ability to run custom software
  - To use custom hosting configurations
- Azure takes care of the physical hardware
  - You take care of configuring, updating, and maintaining the software that runs on the VM.
- An **image** is a template used to create a VM.   
  - Includes an OS and often other software, like development tools or web hosting environments.

## Examples of use-cases

- **During test + dev** as it's easy to create different OS & application configurations. Easy to delete when not needed.
- **Minor tasks**. E.g. application handles fluctations in demand and shut down VMs when you don't need them & quickly start them to meet a suddenly increased demand.
- **Extending your datacenter** to the cloud, e.g. running SharePoint.
- **During disaster recovery**. E.g. if primary datacenter fails, create VMs running on Azure to run your critical applications and then shut them down when the primary datacenter becomes operational again.
- **Lift and shift**: Moving from physical datacenter to cloud. You can take image of the server & run within a VM with little to no changes.
- Learn more: [Typical scenarios for running Azure VMs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/overview?toc=%2Fazure%2Fvirtual-machines%2Fwindows%2Ftoc.json)

## Scaling virtual machines

### Availability sets

- Logical grouping of two or more VMs that help keep your application available during planned or unplanned maintenance.
- **Planned maintenance events**
  - when the underlying Azure fabric that hosts VMs is updated by Microsoft.
  - Done to patch security vulnerabilities, improve performance, and add or update features.
  - Often no impact, sometimes requires reboot.
  - When the VM is part of an availability set, the Azure fabric updates are sequenced so not all of the associated VMs are rebooted at the same time.
    - VMs are put into different **update domains**
      - Update domains indicate groups of VMs and underlying physical hardware that can be rebooted at the same time.
- **Unplanned maintanance events**
  - Involve a hardware failure in the data center e.g. a power outage or disk failure
  - VMs that are part of an availability set automatically switch to a working physical server so the VM continues to run.
  - The group of virtual machines that share common hardware are in the same **fault domain**.
    - Fault domain = rack of servers.
    - provides the physical separation of your workload across different power, cooling, and network hardware that support the physical servers in the data center server racks.
    - In the event the hardware that supports a server rack becomes unavailable, only that rack of servers is affected by the outage.
- With an availability set, you get:
  - ❗ Up to three fault domains
    - each have a server rack with dedicated power and network resources.
  - Five logical update domains
    - ❗ can be increased to a maximum of 20.
- There's no cost for an availability set. You only pay for the VMs within the availability set.
  - 💡 Recommended for high availability.

### Virtual machine scale sets

- Lets you create & manage a group of identical, load balanced VMs.
- Allow you to centrally manage, configure, and update a large number of VMs to provide highly available applications.
- The number of VM instances can automatically increase or decrease in response to demand or a defined schedule.
- 💡 Helps you build large-scale services for areas such as compute, big data, and container workloads.

### Azure Batch

- Enables large-scale job scheduling and compute management with the ability to scale to tens, hundreds, or thousands of VMs.
- When running a job, Batch does:
  - Starts a pool of compute VMs for you
  - Installs applications and staging data
  - Runs jobs with as many tasks as you have
  - Identifies failures
  - Requeues work
  - Scales down the pool as work completes
- 💡 Good for cases where you need raw computing power or supercomputer level compute power.
